adding protocols file (#28)
The-Mycelium-Network/webworkbook: content/topics/protocols/index.md

---
title: What are protocols? - web://workbook

> keywords: what are protocols, type of protocols, protocols explained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keywords: internet protocols, types of internet protocols, internet protocols explained
```

> description: A collection of informational pieces that explains protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A collection of informational pieces that explain internet protocols.
```

menu:
  main:
    parent: topics
    name: Protocols
---

## Protocols are what exactly?

> A protocol is a set of rules and guidelines for communicating data. Rules are defined for each step and process during communication between two or more computers. Here we will cover many of these protocols form IP to POP3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A protocol is a set of rules and guidelines for communicating data. Rules are defined for each step and process during communication between two or more computers. Here we will cover many of these protocols from Internet Protocol(IP) to Post Office Protocol 3(POP3).
```

It is best practice to write out an acronym the first time you use it and put the acronym in parenthesis. This way, the reader can make the association, and the author can freely use the acronym in other areas of the document.

## SMTP

> SMTP stands for Simple Mail Transfer Protocol - This is an email protocol used for sending emails from one email account to another via the internet. SMTP server handles the sending, receiving, and relaying of email. You can think of servers as your real-life post offices. When you send a letter from city A to city B, it first reaches a local post office in city A; here, it gets processed and sent to the post office in city B, which is in charge of delivering it to its final destination. The same happens with SMTP servers—though instead of taking days, the process takes a few minutes at most.

Reviewer: We need to ensure that if we copy text word for word, we mark it up as a quote to avoid plagiarism claims. Not saying it is the case here, I just wanted to make a note of it. If the above is a direct quote, you can mark it up as follows:

```suggestion
> SMTP stands for Simple Mail Transfer Protocol - This is an email protocol used for sending emails from one email account to another via the internet. SMTP server handles the sending, receiving, and relaying of email. You can think of servers as your real-life post offices. When you send a letter from city A to city B, it first reaches a local post office in city A; here, it gets processed and sent to the post office in city B, which is in charge of delivering it to its final destination. The same happens with SMTP servers—though instead of taking days, the process takes a few minutes at most.
```
